2021-03-31-kube-state-metrics-goes-v-2-0.md: Add kube-state-metrics 2.0 (#27324)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2021-03-31-kube-state-metrics-goes-v-2-0.md

---
layout: blog
title: "kube-state-metrics goes v2.0"
date: 2021-04-06
slug: kube-state-metrics-v2-0
---

> **Authors:** Lili Cosic (Red Hat), Frederic Branczyk (Polar Signals), Manuel Rüger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Authors:** Lili Cosic (Red Hat), Frederic Branczyk (Polar Signals), Manuel Rüger (Sony Interactive Entertainment)
```

## What?

[Kube-state-metrics](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics), a project under the Kubernetes organization, generates Prometheus format metrics based on the current state of the Kubernetes native resources. It does this by listening to the Kubernetes API and gathering information about resources and objects, e.g. Deployments, Pods, Services, and StatefulSets. A full list is available in the [documentation]( https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/master/docs) of kube-state-metrics.

## Why?

> After deploying kube-state-metrics it provides you with an array of useful metrics about the state of your cluster out of the box! These metrics can be used to serve as an insight into your cluster: Either through metrics alone, in the form of dashboards, or through an alerting pipeline. They can especially be useful to troubleshoot an outage. A metric worth pointing out is `kube_pod_container_status_restarts_total` which can be used to alert you on a crashing pod. Another helpful metric is `kube_deployment_status_replicas` which together with `kube_deployment_status_replicas_available` can be used to alert on whether a deployment is rolled out successfully or stuck. And there are many more metrics available! If you are interested in further metrics and their details, check out the [documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/master/docs#readme).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`kube-state-metrics` provides you with a wide range of useful metrics about the state of your Kubernetes cluster out of the box! These metrics can be used to serve as an insight into your cluster: Either through metrics alone, in the form of dashboards, or through an alerting pipeline. They can especially be useful to troubleshoot an outage. To provide a few examples:
i) `kube_pod_container_status_restarts_total` can be used to alert on a crashing pod.
ii)`kube_deployment_status_replicas` which together with `kube_deployment_status_replicas_available` can be used to alert on whether a deployment is rolled out successfully or stuck. 

And there are many more metrics available at your disposal! To learn more about the other metrics and their details, please check out the [documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/master/docs#readme).
```

Author: I really like that the start of the sentence isn't `kube-state-metrics`, if you can suggest another way, I would prefer to go that way, if that's okay?

Reviewer: Maybe ```A wide range of useful metrics about the state of your Kubernetes cluster is provided by `kube-state-metrics` out of the box!```

Reviewer 3: I do like the breakout format of the examples - for the intro piece I and was thinking something along the same lines as @mrueg .
"There are numerous useful metrics and insights provided by `kube-state-metrics` right out of the box!"

Author: Done, thanks all! I added also another example as two is not a nice number :D

So without further ado, here is the list of more noteworthy user-facing breaking changes. A full list of changes, features and bug fixes is available in the changelog at the end of this post.
* Flag `--namespace` was renamed to `--namespaces`. If you are using that make sure to adjust that first before deploying the latest release.
* Flag `--collectors` was renamed to `--resources`.
* Flags `--metric-blacklist` and `--metric-whitelist` were renamed to `--metric-denylist` and `--metric-allowlist`.
* Flag `--metric-labels-allowlist` allows you to specify a list of Kubernetes labels that get turned into the dimensions of the `kube_<resource-name>_labels` metrics. By default, the metric contains only name and namespace labels.
* All metrics with a prefix of `kube_hpa_*` were renamed to `kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_*`.
* Metric labels that relate to Kubernetes were converted to snake_case.
* If you are importing kube-state-metrics as a library, we have updated our go module path to `k8s.io/kube-state-metrics/v2`

> * All deprecated stable metrics were removed.

Author: We had a list of them, we could link to that?

> * All deprecated stable metrics were removed.

Reviewer 2: Sure, that works too

---
layout: blog
title: "kube-state-metrics goes v2.0"
date: 2021-04-06
slug: kube-state-metrics-v2-0
---

**Authors:** Lili Cosic (Red Hat), Frederic Branczyk (Polar Signals), Manuel Rüger

## What?

> [Kube-state-metrics](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics), a project under the Kubernetes organization, that generates Prometheus format metrics based on the current state of the Kubernetes native resources. It does this by listening to the Kubernetes API server and gathering information about resources and objects, e.g. Deployments, Pods, Services, and StatefulSets. A full list is available in the [documentation]( https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/master/docs) of kube-state-metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kube-state-metrics](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics), a project under the Kubernetes organization, generates Prometheus format metrics based on the current state of the Kubernetes native resources. It does this by listening to the Kubernetes API and gathering information about resources and objects, e.g. Deployments, Pods, Services, and StatefulSets. A full list is available in the [documentation]( https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/master/docs) of kube-state-metrics.
```

Reviewer 4: Also fixing incorrect whitespace, opening with an English word, and linking to the list of supported resources for metrics:
```suggestion
The [kube-state-metrics](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics) component of Kubernetes helps you to generate Prometheus format metrics based on the current state of your Kubernetes cluster's native resources. It does this by listening to the Kubernetes API and gathering information about resources and objects, e.g. Deployments, Pods, Services, and StatefulSets. A [full list](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/master/docs#exposed-metrics) is available in the kube-state-metrics [documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/master/docs#readme).
```

## Why?

> After deploying kube-state-metrics it provides you with an array of useful metrics about the state of your cluster out of the box! These metrics can be used to serve as an insight into your cluster: Either through metrics alone, in the form of dashboards, or through an alerting pipeline. They can especially be useful to troubleshoot an outage. A metric worth pointing out is `kube_pod_container_status_restarts_total` which can be used to alert you on a crashing pod. Another helpful metric is `kube_deployment_status_replicas` which together with `kube_deployment_status_replicas_available` can be used to alert on whether a deployment is rolled out successfully or stuck. And there are many more metrics available! If you are interested in further metrics and their details, check out the [documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/master/docs#documentation).

Reviewer 4: nit (suggested URL is more stable):
```suggestion
After deploying kube-state-metrics it provides you with an array of useful metrics about the state of your cluster out of the box! These metrics can be used to serve as an insight into your cluster: Either through metrics alone, in the form of dashboards, or through an alerting pipeline. They can especially be useful to troubleshoot an outage. A metric worth pointing out is `kube_pod_container_status_restarts_total` which can be used to alert you on a crashing pod. Another helpful metric is `kube_deployment_status_replicas` which together with `kube_deployment_status_replicas_available` can be used to alert on whether a deployment is rolled out successfully or stuck. And there are many more metrics available! If you are interested in further metrics and their details, check out the [documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/master/docs#readme).
```

## What is new in v2.0?

So now that we know what kube-state-metrics is, we are excited to announce the next release: kube-state-metrics v2.0! This release was long-awaited and started with an alpha release in September 2020. To ease maintenance we removed tech debt and also adjusted some confusing wording around user-facing flags and APIs. We also removed some metrics that caused unnecessarily high cardinality in Prometheus! For the 2.0 release, we took the time to set up scale and performance testing. This allows us to better understand if we hit any issues in large clusters and also to document resource request recommendations for your clusters. In this release (and v1.9.8) container builds providing support for multiple architectures were introduced allowing you to run kube-state-metrics on ARM, ARM64, PPC64 and S390x as well!

The following is a list of the most impactful user-facing breaking changes. The full list of 2.0 release changes includes other breaking changes regarding metrics dropped or renamed, along with new metrics and features added, for that see the full [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) file and the end.

> So without further ado, here is the list of more noteworthy user-facing breaking changes. A full list of changes, features and bug fixes is available in the changelog at the end of this post.

Reviewer 4: Have any port number defaults changed in this release?

Author: None in this release.

* Flag `--namespace` was renamed to `--namespaces`. If you are using that make sure to adjust that first before deploying the latest release.
* Flag `--collectors` was renamed to `--resources`.
* Flags `--metric-blacklist` and `--metric-whitelist` were renamed to `--metric-denylist` and `--metric-allowlist`.
* Flag `--metric-labels-allowlist` allows you to specify a list of Kubernetes labels that get turned into the dimensions of the `kube_<resource-name>_labels` metrics. By default, the metric contains only name and namespace labels.
* All metrics with a prefix of `kube_hpa_*` were renamed to `kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_*`.

> * Kubernetes labels were converted to snake case.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Metric labels that relate to Kubernetes were converted to snake_case.
```

* If you are importing kube-state-metrics as a library, we have updated our go module path to `k8s.io/kube-state-metrics/v2`
* All deprecated stable metrics were removed.

> * quay.io/coreos/kube-state-metrics images will no longer be updated. k8s.gcr.io/kube-state-metrics/kube-state-metrics is the new canonical location.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `quay.io/coreos/kube-state-metrics` images will no longer be updated. `k8s.gcr.io/kube-state-metrics/kube-state-metrics` is the new canonical location.
```

## Found a problem?

> Thanks to all our users for testing so far and thank you to all our contributors for your issue reports as well as code and documentation changes! We have cut 2.0.0 X weeks ago, so far we addressed any problems and got reports from users that all is good. If you find any problems, we the maintainers are more than happy to look into them, so please report them by opening a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/issues).

Reviewer 4: Remember to fix “**X** weeks ago”

## Full changelog

> 

Reviewer 4: The formatting here is a bit off - maybe use an [unordered list](https://commonmark.org/help/tutorial/06-lists.html)?

If your editor lets you turn those issue (or PR?) numbers into hyperlinks in one go, I recommend that to.

**Alternatively**: don't include the changelog here, hyperlink to the full changelog at the end of the list of highlights.

Author: What would you say is more readable, including a full list with unordered or linking?

---
layout: blog
title: "kube-state-metrics goes v2.0"

> date: 2021-04-06

Reviewer: Update date

> slug: kube-state-metrics-v2-0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: kube-state-metrics-v-2-0
```
Not sure if this should match the filename?

---

> **Authors:** Lili Cosic (Red Hat), Frederic Branczyk (Polar Signals), Manuel Rüger (Sony Interactive Entertainment), Tariq Ibrahim(Salesforce)

Reviewer: Add another space here
```suggestion
**Authors:** Lili Cosic (Red Hat), Frederic Branczyk (Polar Signals), Manuel Rüger (Sony Interactive Entertainment), Tariq Ibrahim (Salesforce)
```

* Flag `--namespace` was renamed to `--namespaces`. If you are using the former, please make sure to update the flag before deploying the latest release.
* Flag `--collectors` was renamed to `--resources`.
* Flags `--metric-blacklist` and `--metric-whitelist` were renamed to `--metric-denylist` and `--metric-allowlist`.
* Flag `--metric-labels-allowlist` allows you to specify a list of Kubernetes labels that get turned into the dimensions of the `kube_<resource-name>_labels` metrics. By default, the metric contains only name and namespace labels.
* All metrics with a prefix of `kube_hpa_*` were renamed to `kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_*`.
* Metric labels that relate to Kubernetes were converted to snake_case.
* If you are importing kube-state-metrics as a library, we have updated our go module path to `k8s.io/kube-state-metrics/v2`
* All deprecated stable metrics were removed as per the [notice in the v1.9 release](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/release-1.9/docs#metrics-deprecation).

> * `quay.io/coreos/kube-state-metrics` images will no longer be updated. `k8s.gcr.io/kube-state-metrics/kube-state-metrics` is the new canonical location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `quay.io/coreos/kube-state-metrics` images will no longer be updated. `k8s.gcr.io/kube-state-metrics/kube-state-metrics` is the new canonical location.
* The helm chart that was maintained within kubernetes/kube-state-metrics repository is deprecated. https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts will be its new location. 
```

* All metrics with a prefix of `kube_hpa_*` were renamed to `kube_horizontalpodautoscaler_*`.
* Metric labels that relate to Kubernetes were converted to snake_case.
* If you are importing kube-state-metrics as a library, we have updated our go module path to `k8s.io/kube-state-metrics/v2`
* All deprecated stable metrics were removed as per the [notice in the v1.9 release](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/release-1.9/docs#metrics-deprecation).
* `quay.io/coreos/kube-state-metrics` images will no longer be updated. `k8s.gcr.io/kube-state-metrics/kube-state-metrics` is the new canonical location.
* The helm chart that is part of the kubernetes/kube-state-metrics repository is deprecated. https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts will be its new location. 

For the full list of v2.0 release changes includes features, bug fixes and other breaking changes see the full [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## Found a problem?

> Thanks to all our users for testing so far and thank you to all our contributors for your issue reports as well as code and documentation changes! If you find any problems, we the [maintainers](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/blob/master/OWNERS) are more than happy to look into them, so please report them by opening a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/issues).

Reviewer 4: nit:
```suggestion
Thanks to all our users for testing so far and thank you to all our contributors for your issue reports as well as code and documentation changes! If you find any problems, we the [maintainers](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/blob/master/OWNERS) are more than happy to look into them, so please report them by opening a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/issues/new/choose).
```
